Add mechanism to suspend providers (#30422)
mistercrunch/Airflow: airflow/providers/SUSPENDING_AND_RESUMING_PROVIDERS.rst

Reviewer: Is this the right place for this doc?
The provider folder is user facing this doc is more for developers of Airflow.

Author: It's not really user facing. It won't find it's way to any user artifacts (similarly for example provider.yaml files are not user visible). The idea is to make it close to the place where it will be lkely to be seen by all contributors who check-out airflow and want to understand what to do when they want to suspend/resume. This is why I put it in providers. 

But If we have a better place I can move it elsewhere though - do you have a better proposal that fits it's (above) purpose?

Reviewer: > do you have a better proposal that fits it's (above) purpose?

I have but that involves moving many of our dev READMEs into a dedicated folder leaving only CONTRIBUTING.MD in the main tree level. I will find some time to work on this.

Author: BTW. My philosophy is that the docs for contributors, should be as close as possible to the code you contribute to, which increases chances of finding out what you need to find (contributors check out the code and look at the relevant directory structure in their IDE), where for the users, it can be far, because you anyhow produce a documentation that might be completely differently structured than the source (see airflow documentation for example). But I'd love to see what you propose :)

 .. Licensed to the Apache Software Foundation (ASF) under one
    or more contributor license agreements.  See the NOTICE file
    distributed with this work for additional information
    regarding copyright ownership.  The ASF licenses this file
    to you under the Apache License, Version 2.0 (the
    "License"); you may not use this file except in compliance
    with the License.  You may obtain a copy of the License at

 ..   http://www.apache.org/licenses/LICENSE-2.0

 .. Unless required by applicable law or agreed to in writing,
    software distributed under the License is distributed on an
    "AS IS" BASIS, WITHOUT WARRANTIES OR CONDITIONS OF ANY
    KIND, either express or implied.  See the License for the
    specific language governing permissions and limitations
    under the License.

> Suspending providers

Author: @uranusjr : As discussed in https://github.com/apache/airflow/pull/30359#discussion_r1152855962 - here is comprehensive guide on what to do when suspending/resuming.

In most cases it will be just:

a) flip `suspended` to true/false
b) run `breeze ci-image build --upgrade-to-newer-dependencies` - to remove /add dependencies 
c) run pre-commits (several times possibly to update all information and fix any discrepancies reported by pre-commits).

Only in most complex cases (i.e. when we would like to remove `google` for example) we would need to add a bot more conditional imports and `pytest.importskip` - where we are not able to exclude tests/code automatically - but those will be extremely rare and I added examples what to do in this case.

Note that you might need to run pre-commit several times until all the static checks pass,
because modification from one pre-commit might impact other pre-commits.

If you have pre-commit installed, pre-commit will be run automatically on commit. If you want to run it
manually after commit, you can run it via ``breeze static-checks --last-commit`` some of the tests might fail
because suspension of the provider might cause changes in the dependencies, so if you see errors about
missing dependencies imports, non-usable classes etc., you will need to build the CI image locally
via ``breeze build-image --python 3.7 --upgrade-to-newer-dependencies`` after the first pre-commit run
and then run the static checks again.

If you want to be absolutely sure to run all static checks you can always do this via
``pre-commit run --all-files`` or ``breeze static-checks --all-files``.

Some of the manual modifications you will have to do (in both cases ``pre-commit`` will guide you on what
to do.

* You will have to run  ``breeze setup regenerate-command-images`` to regenerate breeze help files

> * Yoy will need to update ``extra-packages-ref.rst`` and in some cases - when mentioned there explicitly

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* you will need to update ``extra-packages-ref.rst`` and in some cases - when mentioned there explicitly -
```

Example failing collection after ``google`` provider has been suspended:

  .. code-block:: txt

    _____ ERROR collecting tests/providers/apache/beam/operators/test_beam.py ______
    ImportError while importing test module '/opt/airflow/tests/providers/apache/beam/operators/test_beam.py'.
    Hint: make sure your test modules/packages have valid Python names.
    Traceback:
    /usr/local/lib/python3.7/importlib/__init__.py:127: in import_module
        return _bootstrap._gcd_import(name[level:], package, level)
    tests/providers/apache/beam/operators/test_beam.py:25: in <module>
        from airflow.providers.apache.beam.operators.beam import (
    airflow/providers/apache/beam/operators/beam.py:35: in <module>
        from airflow.providers.google.cloud.hooks.dataflow import (
    airflow/providers/google/cloud/hooks/dataflow.py:32: in <module>
        from google.cloud.dataflow_v1beta3 import GetJobRequest, Job, JobState, JobsV1Beta3AsyncClient, JobView
    E   ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'google.cloud.dataflow_v1beta3'
    _ ERROR collecting tests/providers/microsoft/azure/transfers/test_azure_blob_to_gcs.py _

> The fix is to add this line at the top of the ``tests/providers/apache/beam/operators/test_beam.py`` module:

Reviewer 2: Hmm, this is an interesting consequence. Now the Beam provider gets its test coverage reduced just because another provider is suspended. Are we really okay with this?

Author: This is extremely unlikely to happen. When we see it, we will likely decide not to suspend the operator because technically too many things will depend on it. I just added it as technical possibility. 

Generally speaking, we have no other option - if we remove a dependency that a provider depends on and tests will start failing  because of that, then yes we have to decrease the coverage. Simply this means that dependencies we test it with will not work even to install the old, released provider even if we really would like to test it. I think there is no other reasonable way - or at least I do not see one). 

And again - this is soooo remote possibility that I would not worry about this case just YET. There are more things that it's better to worry - we can always figure out a different way (like we did with botocore) when things like that happen.

Author: (Simply loosing mental cycles on this case now makes very little sense).

Reviewer 2: Okay, fair enough, I suppose we'll see how it goes once/if we run into a situation such as this :+1:

        File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/importlib/__init__.py", line 127, in import_module
          return _bootstrap._gcd_import(name, package, level)
        File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap>", line 1006, in _gcd_import
        File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap>", line 983, in _find_and_load
        File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap>", line 967, in _find_and_load_unlocked
        File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap>", line 677, in _load_unlocked
        File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap_external>", line 728, in exec_module
        File "<frozen importlib._bootstrap>", line 219, in _call_with_frames_removed
        File "/usr/local/lib/python3.7/site-packages/airflow/providers/mysql/transfers/s3_to_mysql.py", line 23, in <module>
          from airflow.providers.amazon.aws.hooks.s3 import S3Hook
      ModuleNotFoundError: No module named 'airflow.providers.amazon'

or:

  .. code-block:: txt

  Error: The ``airflow.providers.microsoft.azure.transfers.azure_blob_to_gcs`` object in transfers list in
  airflow/providers/microsoft/azure/provider.yaml does not exist or is not a module:
  No module named 'gcloud.aio.storage'

> The fix for that is to turn the feature into optional provider feature (in the place where the excluded

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The fix for that is to turn the feature into an optional provider feature (in the place where the excluded
```

This is also a bit worrisome :grimacing:

``airflow.providers`` import happens:

  .. code-block:: python

    try:
        from airflow.providers.amazon.aws.hooks.s3 import S3Hook
    except ImportError as e:
        from airflow.exceptions import AirflowOptionalProviderFeatureException

        raise AirflowOptionalProviderFeatureException(e)

> * In case we suspend important provider, which is part of the default Dockerfile or used you might want to
>   update tests for PROD docker image in ``docker_tests/test_prod_image.py``.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* In case we suspend an important provider, which is part of the default Dockerfile you might want to
  update the tests for PROD docker image in ``docker_tests/test_prod_image.py``.
```
